## Build a Continuous Deployment Pipeline

In this module we'll complete the workshop by setting up a continuous deployment
pipeline to automatically move our changes from our source code repository to
prodcution on check-in. We'll use **AWS CodeCommit** as our source code
repository, **AWS CodePipeline** to ochestrate the pipeline and **AWS
CodeBuild** to build and push our Docker container.

Our pipeline has three stages. In the **Source** stage, the pipeline downloads
the latest revision from CodeCommit. In **Build** stage, the pipeline triggers a
CodeBuild build to assemble a new Docker container image and push it to Amazon
ECR. In the process, it will generate a JSON file defining the new Docker image
tag and which container should be update. CodePipeline will use that
configuration in the **Deploy** stage to replace the container's image URL
within our service.

![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/pipeline.png)

### Setup

Ensure that you've followed the [setup guide][setup] before starting this
module. This section builds upon the [Introduction][introduction] section which
must be completed first.

For this section, you'll require an IAM user with access to create and
modify resources in the following services:

- AWS IAM
- AWS CodeCommit
- AWS CodePipeline
- AWS CodeBuild

### Implementation

#### 1. Create a AWS CodeCommit Repository

To get started, we'll need a place to keep our code. AWS CodeCommit is a
fully-managed source control service that makes it easy to host secure and
highly scalable private Git repositories.

**✅ Step-by-step Instructions**

1. Go to the AWS Management Console, click **Services** then select **CodeCommit**
   under Developer Tools.

1. Click **Get started** if this is your first visit to the CodeCommit console,
   or **Create repository** if you've used it before.

1. Enter `workshop` into **Repository name**

1. Click **Create repository**.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/repo-created.png)

#### 2. Push the Application to AWS CodeCommit

Now that we have a repository, we want to push our code into it. These next few
steps will configure git to use the AWS CLI credential helper, move the origin
remoe to the CodeCommit repository, and push to it.

1. Switch to the tab where you have your Cloud9 environment opened. Run the next
   few commands in the terminal.

1. Configure the CodeCommit AWS CLI credential helper:

    ```console
    git config --global credential.helper '!aws codecommit credential-helper $@'
    git config --global credential.UseHttpPath true
    ```
<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

1. Set the remote URL of origin to the new CodeCommit repository:

    ```console
    git remote set-url origin https://git-codecommit.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/v1/repos/workshop
    ```
<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

1. Push the code to CodeCommit:

    ```console
    git push origin master
    ```
<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

#### 3. Create a Service Role for AWS CodeBuild

CodeBuild will need permission to push to our Amazon ECR repository on our
behalf. In this section, we'll create a service role for CodeBuild that allows
it to authenticate with ECR and push an image into our repository.

**✅ Step-by-step Instruction**

1. Go to the AWS Management Console, click **Services** then select **IAM**
   under Security, Identity & Compliance.

1. Click on **Roles** in the left-hand navigation.

1. Click **Create role**.

1. First, we'll configure which AWS service can assume this role. Click
   **CodeBuild** from the **Choose the service that will use this
   role** list.

1. Next, choose **CodeBuild** from **Select your use case**.

1. Click **Next: Permissions**.

1. Click **Create policy**. The visual policy editor will open in a new tab.

1. Click on **Choose a service** and click **EC2 Container Registry**.

1. Click on **Actions**.

1. Expand the **Read** permissions and check the **BatchCheckLayerAvailability**
   and **GetAuthorizationToken** checkboxes.

1. Expand the **Write** permissions and check the **CompleteLayerUpload**,
   **UploadLayerPart**, **InitiateLayerUpload**, and *PutImage**
   checkboxes.

1. Click **Resources** to limit the role to the **workshop** repository.

1. Click **Add ARN** next to **repository**.

1. Enter `us-east-1` in **Region**, your [Account ID][find-account-id] in
   **Account**, and `workshop` in **repository**.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/add-arn.png)

1. Click **Add**.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/visual-editor.png)

    This will result in a policy allowing CodeBuild to get an authorization
    token via **ecr:GetAuthorizationToken** and the required actions to push an
    image to the **workshop** repository.

    ```json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
            {
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "ecr:CompleteLayerUpload",
                    "ecr:UploadLayerPart",
                    "ecr:InitiateLayerUpload",
                    "ecr:BatchCheckLayerAvailability",
                    "ecr:PutImage"
                ],
                "Resource": "arn:aws:ecr:us-east-1:123456789012:repository/workshop"
            },
            {
                "Sid": "VisualEditor1",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": "ecr:GetAuthorizationToken",
                "Resource": "*"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

1. Click **Review policy**.

1. Enter `WorkshopBuildPolicy` in **Name**.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/review-policy.png)

1. Click **Create policy**.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/policy-confirmation.png)

1. Return to the original tab where you were creating the role. Click
   **Refresh** and type `WorkshopBuildPolicy` in the **Filter** textbox. Check the
   **WorkshopBuildPolicy** checkbox. Click **Next: Review**.

1. Enter `WorkshopBuildRole` in **Role name**.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/review-role.png)

1. Click **Create role**.


#### 4. Build the Continuous Deployment Pipeline

1. Go to the AWS Management Console, click **Services** then select
   **CodePipeline** under Developer Tools.

1. Click **Get started** if this is your first visit to the CodePipeline console,
   or **Create pipeline** if you've used it before.

1. Enter `workshop` into **Pipeline name**.

1. Click **Next step**.

1. Select **AWS CodeCommit** from **Source provider**.

1. Enter `workshop` into **Repository name**.

1. Enter `master` into **Branch name**.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/source.png)

1. Click **Next step**.

1. Select **AWS CodeBuild** from **Build provider**.

1. Tick the **Create a new build project** radio button.

1. Enter `workshop` into **Project Name**.

1. Select **Ubuntu** from **Operating system**.

1. Select **Docker** from **Runtime**.

1. Select **aws/codebuild/docker:17.09.0** from **Version**.

1. Tick the **Choose an existing service role from your account** under **AWS
   CodeBuild service role**.

1. Enter `WorkshopBuildRole` in **Role name**.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/service-role.png)

1. Extend **Advanced Settings**. Create an **Environment Variable** for the
   Amazon ECR repository URI. Enter `REPOSITORY_URI` into **Name** and the
   repository URI of the Amazon ECR repository as the value. 

    If you need to find it quickly, switch to your Cloud9 terminal and run:

    ```console
    aws ecr describe-repositories --repository-name workshop --query repositories[0].repositoryUri --output text
    ```
<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/env-var.png)

1. Click **Save build project**.

1. Click **Next step**.

1. Select **Amazon ECS** from **Deployment provider**.

1. Enter `workshop` into **Cluster name**.

1. Enter `workshop` into **Service name**.

1. Enter `images.json` into **Image filename**. This is the JSON file generated
   by the build process that informs CodePipeline and ECS which container should
   be updated and with what image.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/deploy.png)

1. Click **Next step**.

1. Click **Create role**.

1. This will create a new role for CodePipeline to assume to interact with other
   AWS services. Click **View Policy Document** to inspect the permissions it
   will be granted. Then, click **Allow**.

1. Click **Next step**.

1. Review the details of the pipeline you've configured.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/pipeline-details.png)

1. Click **Create pipeline**.

#### 5. Deploy a New Revision

1. Switch to the tab where you have your Cloud9 environment opened.

1. Open the file `fargate-workshop-app/index.js` by navigating to it in the
   environment tree and double clicking the filename.

1. Scroll down until you find the commented out delete action.

    ![](images/build-a-continuous-deployment-pipeline/commented-code.png)

1. Uncomment the code block. You can do this by selecting the code block, going
   to **Edit**, **Comment**, and selecting **Toggle Comment** in the menu bar, or
   processing **⌘-/** (macOS) / **Ctrl-/** (Windows).

1. Save the file by going to **File** and selecting **Save** in the menu bar, or
   pressing **⌘SS** (macOS) / **Ctrl-S** (Windows).

1. Check in the changes by running the following command in the Cloud9 terminal:

    ```console
    git commit -am "Adding delete action"
    ```
<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

1. Push the changes to the CodeCommit repository by running the following
   command in the Cloud9 terminal:

    ```console
    git push origin master
    ```
<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

1. Go to the AWS Management Console, click **Services** then select
   **CodePipeline** under Developer Tools.

1. Click on **workshop**.

1. You'll see the changes move through the pipeline. While a stage is in
   progress, CodePipeline indicates this by displaying the stage with a blue
   color. If successful it'll turn green, if there's an error or other issue and
   the pipeline can't proceed, it'll turn red. Wait for the pipeline to
   complete.

1. Switch back to your Cloud9 terminal to test the new endpoint. First, create
   a new quotation by hitting your service through the DNSName of the your load
   balancer. Replace the hostname in the following command:

    ```console
    curl -Ssi http://YOUR_LOAD_BALANCER_DNSNAME_HERE/quotes -X PUT -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"Text":"If you don’t fail at least 90 percent of the time, you’re not aiming high enough.","AttributedTo":"Alan Kay"}'
    ```
<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

    You'll get back the HTTP response including a Location header of your newly created quotation:

    ```console
    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    X-Powered-By: Express
    Location: /quotes/93752220-f995-11e7-b1fc-e1cb57d4a62c
    Vary: Accept
    Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
    Content-Length: 68
    Date: Mon, 15 Jan 2018 01:44:07 GMT
    Connection: keep-alive

    Created. Redirecting to /quotes/93752220-f995-11e7-b1fc-e1cb57d4a62c
    ```

1. Test your deployment by testing the newly created delete endpoint. Hit the
   location header above with the DELETE method. For example, for the above
   output, our command would be:

    ```console
    curl -Ss http://YOUR_LOAD_BALANCER_DNSNAME_HERE/quotes/93752220-f995-11e7-b1fc-e1cb57d4a62c -X DELETE
    ```
<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

### ⭐ Recap

🔑 A continuous deployment pipeline is an automated manifestion of the process
for getting your software from version control to your users. AWS CodePipeline
is a managed continuous delivery service that builds, tests, and deploys your
code on source control changes.

🛠️ You've created a repository for your application in AWS CodeCommit, mapped
your git remote, and pushed your code to it.

🛠️ You've built a continuous deployment pipeline using AWS CodePipeline and
configured a build project in AWS CodeBuild. Any changes in the master branch to
your project will be automatically built as a Docker image, pushed to Amazon
ECR, and deployed to Amazon ECR using AWS Fargate.

🎉 You've completed this section!

[setup]: setup.html
[introduction]: index.html#introduction
